\section{Solar System Pipelines}
\label{sec:solsys}

\begin{figure}[th]
\begin{center}
\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{figures/solarsystempipeline.pdf}

\caption{\label{fig:ssp} Detection, attribution, linking, submission and
precovery of moving sources within the nightly data: The attribution is
performed in real-time by the AP pipelines querying the {\tt mpsky} service
with resulting information attached to the alerts and queued for submission
to the MPC.  The linking is performed in daytime using {\tt heliolinx}, with
resulting links queued for submission to the MPC.  Fetching of data from the
MPC is performed automatically using PostgreSQL replication, with new data
triggering recomputation of physical properties and precovery runs in the
Daily Data Products Pipeline.  Any observations discovered by the precovery
procedure are queued for submission to the MPC, using the submission manager
tool.  The ephemeris cache is precomputed at dusk using {\tt Sorcha} and
{\tt mpsky}, to enable fast attribution at nighttime.  All timings denote
design goals.  }

\end{center}
\end{figure}

The Solar System Pipeline (SSP; Figure~\ref{fig:ssp}) suite is responsible for (i) discovering
previously unknown solar system objects by linking together observations
(usually DIASources) unattributable to static (non-moving) sources, (ii)
reporting these to the Minor Planet Center (MPC), (iii) computing basic
physical characteristics such as absolute magnitudes and slope parameters
for all asteroids where sufficient data is available, and (iv) using the
orbits received from the MPC to associate their apparitions in the DIASource
tables (both in real-time and as precovery).

The core element of the SSP is the linking pipeline, named {\tt heliolinx}
\citep{heliolinx}.  This code, run in daytime, clusters newly detected
DIAObjects to search for candidate asteroids.  The high-level procedure is
to link DIASource detections within a night (when on-sky motion is
approximately linear) into {\em tracklets}, to link these tracklets across
multiple nights (into tracks) and to fit the tracks with an orbital model to
identify those tracks that are consistent with an asteroid orbit.  The Rubin
implementation of this software (Heinze et al., in prep.) is based on the
HelioLinC algorithm \citep{2018AJ....156..135H}, with the key change being
that the clustering is performed not on the sky, but in 3D space.  It is
designed to be capable of detecting 95\% of all Solar System objects whose
tracklets are observed over three nights within a 15-night
window.\footnote{Detailed criteria are specified in the LSST Observatory
System Specification (OSS) document {\tt OSS-REQ-0159}}. {\tt heliolinx} is
written in C++, but provides a Python API including a Task API.

Candidate discoveries with high degree of certainty, as well as
re-observations of already known objects, are reported to the Minor Planet
Center (MPC) using the observation submission pipeline.  The astrometric
and photometric data are converted to the PSV variant of the Astrometric
Data Exchange Standard \citep[ADES;][]{2017DPS....4911214C}, and submitted
via a HTTPS POST API provided by the MPC.

Following processing and validation of newly reported candidates, they're
added to the MPC's central database.  This database, including the table
orbits as well as observations, is replicated using PostgreSQL logical
replication.  Following the replication, the Daily Data Products Pipeline
recomputes the absolute magnitudes of objects in the SSObject table, as well
as some auxiliary per-observation information for individual observations
(the SSSource table).

The replicated orbits and computed absolute magnitudes are utilized to
predict positions (ephemerides) and magnitudes of solar system objects at
subsequent night.  To enable speedy retrieval (on order of 100msec or less)
of all objects in a visit, we precompute on-sky locations of all solar
system objects, fit Chebyshev polynomials, and build an efficient
HEALpix-based index allowing for fast lookup.  These ephemerides are then
served to association pipelines described in Section~\ref{sec:solar}.  This
element of the pipeline is based on Sorcha (computation; Merritt et al. 
accepted) and {\tt mpsky} \citep[fast lookup and serving;][]{mpsky}.  While
still being constructed, a similar service is planned for ``precovery'' --
the association of originally missed observations of solar system objects
observed earlier in the survey.
\\

Taken together, this suite of pipelines enables Rubin to identify sources
consistent with being observations of objects in the solar system (both new
and previously known), and makes these data public by reporting their
discoveries to the Minor Planet Center and making them available to Rubin
users within via the PPDB.
